[MUSIC]
Let's talk about game design.
In this section,
we're making a 2D platformer.
And I'm sure you have played
a ton of 2D platformers and
you know exactly how they go down.
We need a start point, we need
a finish point, we need some ladders,
we need some enemies to avoid,
to create some threats,
some obstacles to plonk
into that harm the player.
And also,
if this is our overall world in our scene,
we need to consider where
the camera fits within that.
So this would be the camera size.
The camera obviously screen size is gonna
be smaller than the overall world, and
we've got two options.
We can either have it when the player gets
down to here, it snaps the game window to
this point, and then down here and snatch
that point, all will have a follow camera.
Now, I just wanna point out that tile
based games has been around for ages.
For example, Castlevania here, you can
see, here are the blocks that fit within
the world, and
this is an example of a tile map.
And the tile maps are very small in size,
very efficient way of getting
information into your game.
Rather than have to create this asset,
and that asset, and
that asset, we just get one tile and then
we paint those tiles to create our world.
Another example, Mega Man, there's dozens
and dozens, and probably thousands,
of these cool old school games
that I could draw upon that
you might have known and
played and have fond memories of.
But a lot of them are using tiles for
the way that they construct their world.
More of a modern example,
still a few years old now, but
Spelunky which has done very
well as an indy game using tile.
As you can see, each of these elements
here is a tile in the foreground and
elements over the top of
it to add some flavor.
And a side note as well, this system
of creating tasks can be used for
a top-town game, you can make a top-down
road like like the Binding of Isaac.
More of a world adventure game like
Hyperlight Drifter, a beautiful,
wonderful game here.
Or a fast-paced action shooter
like Enter The Gungeon.
The mechanism for creating the tiles and
putting behavior on tiles is the same.
In our instance,
we're doing a platformer and
using Unity's physics system to be
doing jumping and falling, etc.
But you totally could do more
of a top-down approach as well,
if that is more of what
you're interested in.
For the game design for TileVania,
which is what I've called it here,
player experience we are looking to create
a pressure situation, under pressure.
I'd like to have a countdown timer going.
Our Core Mechanic, well, it's run and
jump cuz it's a platformer.
And you wanna get from a to b
by navigating platforms and
avoiding traps and enemies,
standard platformer stuff.
Our game theme is to escape.
You're a prisoner!
The clock is ticking.
You've gotta get the heck out of there.
That's the theme that we're going for
in our game.
Tech Setup, what we need to consider right
from the start, multiple tilemap layers.
One for the background to have all those
visuals, the flavor on the background.
And for the foreground to have the
gameplay functionality with the collision,
and the platforms, and the enemies,
and the player and so on.
We're gonna be implementing
keyboard controls for movement.
We need to make a decision on snapping or
follow camera.
I also need to think about
from a tech point of view,
a high level tech point of view, how we
go about creating an automated painting
system to give flavor to when
we're painting down our tiles.
The MVP Gameplay Features
a minimal viable product.
We've gotta be able to run and
jump, we need to have traps and
obstacles that kill the player,
a start and
end point to say this is where you start
in the level, this is where you finish.
And a countdown timer I think would be
cool just to give the game some urgency.
And a reason to, why am I trying to
get through this level so quickly?
Now the challenge for you to
Find Your Art Assets, if you'd like.
Now the caveat here is we'll be providing
some basic assets for the world and
the character.
So you can follow along no problem
whatsoever using our assets if you don't
wanna find your own, or create your own.
But if you're up for the challenge, this
is a time to create your artistic muscles
by creating some assets or
to find an asset pack that you like.
And specifically, you'll need world tiles,
character and enemy to make this work.
And I wanna give you some ideas
on where to find these things.
I'll also put link in
the resources section.
You can jump over to the Kenny's website,
kenny.nl.
And there is a ton of great tile
assets in here, all free for
you to use however you like,
no attribution or license required.
opengameart.org there's lots and
lots of different assets in here as well.
Also free, also to use how you like.
There's some different licences
that you need to check out.
Some people need attribution,
in other words saying our assets came
from this person other's do not.
Of course you can go to the Unity asset
store we've talked about a bunch and
for us we'll be using an asset pack
from the asset store called super
platformer assets.
that we have spoken with
the assets pack creators and
they've have said, yes, that you
can use this as well in your game.
But only with a non-commercial license.
So that means you're not
allowed to publish your game,
unless you buy the assets.
And that's something that I'd
consider if you dig the assets.
And I'd urge you to
consider buying them and
contributing to the asset pack creator as
well who's letting us use these for now.
I'll talk about that more when we're
actually implementing the assets.
But for now, I wanted to show you that
these are the ones that we'll be using.
So you've got the context of what
we will do, if you wanna go out and
create your own or get your own.
And if you do wanna create your own, then
you might wanna check out our GIMP course.
Gimp is a free 2D creation, similar to
Photoshop, but it's the free Photoshop.
You might wanna have a look at that when
you're thinking about your challenge here
that, well, maybe it's a good time to
learn a little bit of 2D art creation.
And GameDev.tv does have a GIMP
course that you might wanna have
a look at for that.
So,there's your challenge, there's
the context of what we're doing in this
section, and
I'll see you in the next video.